naming him after my husband.
I've been considering
It's been a tradition
in his family
for over five
generations.
I'm sure
he'd be very pleased.
My husband's name is..
Greskrendtregk.
He's Ktarean.
is no easy matter.
Choosing a name
from experience.
I speak
any progress, Doctor?
Have you had
historical, literary
I've reviewed
( sighs )
and anthropological databases
from over 500 worlds,
and have yet to find
a suitable name.
to give some thought to...
However, I may want
Greskrendtregk.
To be honest,
of something simpler.
I've been thinking
What do you think
of Cameron?
Oh, I like it.
Cameron. From
the ancient
Celtic term for one
whose nose is bent.
Well, what about Frederick?
Very distinguished.
Frederick.
a close resemblance
However, it bears
to a rather impolite term
on the Bolian home world.
Well, it doesn't have
to be a human name.
I like Sural.
It's Vulcan.
Yes. Unfortunately,
of a dictator on Sakura Prime,
it was also the name
famed for beheading his rivals
and his parents.
an objection to Benaren.
He won't have
You're right. I've never heard
that name before.
I think it's lovely.
Is it Ocampan?
my father's name.
Benaren was
inspiration in my life.
He was the greatest
JANEWAY: All science officers
please report to your stations.
Your scans look fine, Ensign.
We'll see you in a week.
Thank you.
Greskrendtregk
would make
a good middle name,
don't you think?
your father's name to me.
You never suggested
I-I thought you were only
considering human names.
Ah. Well, you
were mistaken.
If you like Benaren,
you can't use it too.
there's no reason
I'm sure she won't mind.
Won't mind that I just
usurped her baby's name
the moment I heard it?
Thank you, but
no, thank you.
My uncle's name
was Elrem.
a boy named Tarrik.
I once knew
There's not much left
of whatever it was.
PARIS:
From the amount of debris,
I'd guess it was a small ship,
no bigger than a shuttlecraft.
any organic material
I'm not reading
in the debris field.
been an unmanned vessel.
It must have
Possibly a probe.
what happened to it?
Any idea
The high residual
energy signature
repeated weapons fire.
indicates
Captain, the wreckage
is composed primarily
of duritanium polyalloy.
Duritanium?
I haven't seen many weapons
that kind of damage
that could do
to a duritanium hull.
Transport some samples
of the debris
to Engineering
for analysis.
Continuous scans,
Lieutenant.
whoever did this
We don't want
to catch us
by surprise.
Any conclusions?
Afraid so.
We've identified
the signature
left by the weapons fire.
There's no question.
It was Cardassian.
Cardassian?
Could Seska be responsible?
No, Captain.
I am.
theme music playing )
( dramatic
The probe was destroyed
by an experimental
Cardassian weapon
from the Alpha Quadrant.
( panting )
Sorry.
its signature because...
I recognized
this weapon very well.
because I know
got our hands on it
Chakotay and I
when we were fighting
the Cardassians.
How did it get here?
same way we did.
Probably the
The last time we saw it, it was
heading in the same direction
in the badlands where
the caretaker picked us up.
Originally, the Cardassians
sent this thing to destroy
munitions base.
a Maquis
We nicknamed it,
"Dreadnought."
It's a self-guided
tactical missile
of 1,000 kilos of matter
carrying a charge
and another 1,000
of antimatter.
Enough to destroy
a small moon.
Now, add to that,
computer systems I've ever seen.
one of the most sophisticated
They made this missile
adaptable, evasive,
defensive weaponry--
armed with its own
in other words, unstoppable.
So, how did you stop it?
It got through all our defenses.
We didn't.
Worked like it was supposed to,
except for one minor detail.
It didn't go off.
Leave it to the Cardassians
to build such an incredibly
advanced tactical weapon
with an old kinetic detonator.
and then arm the warhead
The missile skipped off
CHAKOTAY:
into the atmosphere and
quietly went into orbit.
and reprogrammed the computer.
I got inside it,
( sighs )
just reprogram it.
Hell, I didn't
I changed its identity.
about being Cardassian.
I made it forget
Now it was working
for the Maquis.
And we gave it
a new mission--
fuel depot on Aschelan Five.
to destroy the Cardassian
But it never made it
out of the badlands.
been destroyed in one
We thought it had
of the plasma storms.
stop this weapon
So, how do we
before it causes
any more damage?
masks its warp trail
Dreadnought
with a randomized EM field,
but I can modify
our navigational sensors
to cut through that.
And what are we going to do
with it once we find it?
I get back inside it.
I know all the security codes.
I installed them myself.
Lieutenant Paris
can assist you
with the navigational
sensors.
Keep me informed.
Dismissed.
to show up for meetings on time
Lieutenant? I expect everyone
and properly dressed.
Yes, sir.
a lot of distortion
There's still
in the upper frequencies.
Better. Now let's
try filtering out
the ion radiation.
B'Elanna.
You must be really worried
about catching this thing.
Chakotay wasn't telling
the whole truth.
We didn't send Dreadnought
against the Cardassians.
on a mission
I was the one who sent it...
without asking him.
You were afraid
he'd say no.
he pulled me aside, and...
After I did it,
I was ready to defend myself.
that I had anticipated
I was so sure
everything that could
possibly go wrong.
I even programmed it
to warn Federation ships
to stay out of its way.
In my own voice.
Your voice?
Cardassian computer's voice
Listening to that
was driving me crazy.
Heh. I don't blame you.
Anyway, Chakotay
looked at me--
I didn't know him
very well yet--
and all he said
soft voice of his was...
in that damned
that I'd hurt him.
That he thought he'd earned
my trust and loyalty.
when it disappeared
I was so glad
into the badlands.
"Thank God it's over."
I remember thinking,
But it's not.
And if anything happens here
because of Dreadnought...
it's my fault.
No one else's.
( sighs )
You took a risk.
You were thinking
like a Maquis.
That was a whole
different life.
( gasps )
Tell me about it.
You know...
I've been surprised
at how well you've been
able to fit in here.
A little envious too.
Tom...
what's been going on
with you lately?
Going on? How?
( scoffs )
People are starting
to talk.
Are they?
People like who? Chakotay?
No, I mean people
like me.
Like today.
Look at yourself.
a briefing late?
Coming to
And is it true
with Lieutenant Rollins?
that you had a fight
( chuckling )
The lieutenant
was unhappy
weren't punctuated properly,
that my conn reports
to Starfleet protocol.
according
I didn't like his attitude.
about your reports?
Was he right
We're in the Delta Quadrant;
nowhere near Starfleet.
What difference...?
Yeah. He was right.
I'm the one who's been wrong.
Wrong about a lot of things.
Why don't we try running
a multi-phasic sweep?
dramatic theme playing )
( gentle
Captain, I'm picking up
the trail again.
New heading: 1-9-6 mark 4.
I'm on it.
This course is erratic.
Are we sure we're following
a single warp trail?
Perhaps its navigational system
is malfunctioning.
for over a year, far longer
It's been operating
than it was designed
to function.
No. This is deliberate.
one of the evasive patterns
It's following
I programmed into it.
observed us following.
It must have
on long-range sensors.
I think I've got it
No, that's a sensor echo.
Dreadnought's programmed
to deflect its image
up to 100,000 kilometers
from its true location.
you get a heading,
The next time
look for a brief surge
in neutrino emissions
within 100,000-kilometer radius.
That'll be the real thing.
Got it.
Elevated neutrino levels.
Locking in coordinates.
visual range.
It's within
On screen.
Its targeting scanners
have been activated.
What's wrong?
It's not supposed
to do that
onto its final target.
until it's locked
It's heading for a planet
over ten light years away.
in a system
At its current speed,
in about three weeks.
it'll get there
The planet is Class M.
heavily-populated areas.
I'm reading several
( dramatic theme playing )
Seska will want to know
about this Cardassian missile
immediately.
Mr. Jonas, your enthusiasm
is appreciated,
to know more about it
but I would prefer
to Maje Culluh's attention.
before I bring it
If I could just talk to Seska.
As I explained,
assigned to be your control.
I have now been
Look, has she been made aware of
how much I've been helping you?
What the Maje chooses to share
with her is none of my concern.
But you are in good hands,
my friend.
Now, tell me more about this
weapon your ship has found.
Look, all you need
to tell Seska
is that missile is better armed
than entire Kazon-Nistrim sect.
That's very
interesting.
( alarm beeping )
What more can you tell me
that I can...?
Someone's about to make
a subspace transmission.
They may be able to detect
our comlink.
I have to terminate.
My name is Kathryn Janeway,
Captain of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
Kellan, Captain.
First Minister
What is it you want?
Our scans of your world
long-range tracking abilities.
suggest you have
course for the last two days.
We have been observing your
Have you also been able
to detect the missile
on a parallel course
off our starboard bow?
We haven't been able
to identify
what it is, but yes.
You have the right to know,
First Minister,
is carrying a warhead
that this missile
destructive force, and--
with a significant
of threat, Captain?
Is this some sort
On the contrary.
We want to help.
I find that hard to believe.
precedes you, Captain.
Your reputation
you've threatened many races
We've been told that
since your arrival
in this quadrant.
First Minister,
we're aware
telling that to people.
the Kazon have been
They'd like to prevent us
from making allies.
you've been misled.
I assure you,
sending this missile toward us.
And yet here you are,
The missile arrived here
from our quadrant
a very unusual accident.
due to
We haven't been able
to determine yet
why it chose Rakosa
as its target,
but my chief engineer
is preparing
before it reaches you.
to disarm it
you are telling me this
Perhaps
our defensive response.
in order to delay
I could have maintained
communication silence
any warning at all.
and not given you
That's true.
Nevertheless,
be aware that
our defense force on alert.
I am placing
I'd do the same in your place.
your progress closely.
We will be watching
Janeway to Torres.
will you be ready to transport?
How soon
have responded to my codes.
Dreadnought's shields
I'm ready now, Captain.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
Energize.
Authorized entry detected.
( with Torres' voice ):
DREADNOUGHT COMPUTER
Initiating DNA scan.
B'Elanna Torres confirmed.
Hello, B'Elanna.
Your last systems access
was on Stardate 47582.
Current date is 49447.
Time: 0840 hours.
Did you sleep well
last night?
to tell you the truth.
Not so well,
Activate programmer interface.
was not anticipated
Your presence
during the mission.
Please explain.
your programming, Dreadnought.
Something's gone wrong with
Display targeting schematic.
A self-diagnostic
has been conducted
every 14 hours.
have been detected.
No malfunctions
Maybe there's something wrong
your diagnostic systems too.
with
( sighs )
Identify target.
Aschelan Five.
What targeting parameters
are you using?
Size, radiothermic signature,
atmospheric composition,
relative...
Dreadnought,
Enough.
you're nowhere near
Aschelan Five.
you are mistaken, B'Elanna.
Based on available data,
your navigational systems.
Let me check out
navigational systems
Access to primary
at Stage Three Alert status.
is denied
That was my idea,
wasn't it?
Affirmative.
We'll have to go at this
Okay.
in a different way then,
won't we?
( device beeps on;
beeping )
do you know what happened to you
Dreadnought,
my last systems access?
the day after
Please be more specific.
a coherent Tetryon beam?
Did you encounter
Confirmed.
to avoid the phenomenon failed.
All attempts
into the Delta Quadrant.
That beam carried you
it damaged your sensors.
I'm not surprised
Dreadnought, reinitialize
your navigational systems.
( device turns off )
Computer?
Reinitialization sequence
is complete.
Okay...
our current position.
Now verify
Based on relative position
to known astronomical markers,
is currently located
this vessel
in the Delta Quadrant.
located in the Delta Quadrant?
And is Aschelan Five
Negative.
Then reconfirm your target lock.
Unable to verify.
from Stage Three.
Standing down
has been deactivated.
Target lock
Reestablishing Stage Four.
Janeway to Torres.
Go ahead, Captain.
We're showing a shut-down
of all your engines.
Can you confirm that?
That and more.
I'll be ready to transport back
in a few minutes.
Good work, B'Elanna.
Acknowledged.
Janeway out.
return to Stage Five.
Dreadnought,
Initiate powersave program.
( systems powering down )
Good night, B'Elanna.
Acknowledged.
Sweet dreams.
torpedoes could be modified
The Dreadnought's quantum
with our launchers.
to be compatible
engine components?
What about its
to Starfleet specs.
Easily converted
spare parts for years.
We'll have
from the computer core.
download some files
We should also
you can begin
B'Elanna,
the salvage operation
first thing in the--
Paris to Janeway.
Yes, Lieutenant?
The missile just took off.
It's going into warp.
Stay with it, Tom.
Engaging warp drive.
This is impossible.
When I left,
completely shut down.
it was
We're back on a heading
to Rakosa Five.
speed to warp nine.
It's increasing
At this rate, it'll reach
the planet in 51 hours.
( dramatic score playing )
PARIS: It's still on course
for the planet at warp nine.
JANEWAY: Mr. Paris, bring us
within ten kilometers.
a parallel position.
Maintain
Bridge to Torres.
Your status?
I don't understand it, Captain.
Dreadnought's shields
my security code anymore.
are not recognizing
initiate transport.
We can't
You better get back up here,
Lieutenant.
( sighs )
Aye, Captain.
at disabling its drive systems.
Mr. Tuvok, let's take a shot
Ready photons. Red Alert.
the missile's shields
Torres programmed
weapons, even Starfleet's.
to adjust to all known
Voyager wasn't in service
when she did it.
with Type-Six photon torpedoes.
We're equipped
They may just get through.
Fire.
damage, Captain.
No discernible
scanned our weapons,
It must have
adapted its shields.
Captain, it's maintaining
course and speed.
We're being hailed
by the missile.
Let's hear it.
DREADNOUGHT ( Torres' voice ):
Unidentified Federation ship,
is Cardassian in design,
although this vessel
it has been appropriated
by the Maquis.
Please stand down
your weapons.
You stand down your weapons
and I'll stand down mine.
with a tactical mission
You are interfering
against Cardassian aggressors.
This vessel is programmed
with all necessary force
to respond
to prevent any disruption
to its mission.
why have you resumed course?
Dreadnought,
Hello, B'Elanna.
once your safe departure
Course was resumed
from this vessel
was confirmed.
It was a necessary response
to your deception.
My "deception"?
the Delta Quadrant deception.
You are participating in
Explain, Dreadnought.
False information
has been entered
navigational sensor array.
into Dreadnought's
When a bomb starts talking
about itself
in the third person,
I get worried.
Why would I enter
false information?
Probability assessment
indicates
you are being coerced
by Cardassian forces.
identified Voyager
You've already
as a Federation ship,
Dreadnought.
Your scanners
must indicate
a Cardassian crew.
this is not
Probability assessment
indicates
within the parameters
you are operating
of the Cardassian-Federation
alliance,
in the Treaty of 2367,
as described
a treaty rejected
by the Maquis.
I was just over there,
So when
and you shut yourself off,
you were lying to me?
Acknowledged.
Heh. I never taught it
to do that.
That is not correct, B'Elanna.
Your tactical subroutine
instructed Dreadnought
to prepare responses
Cardassian threats.
for 39 potential
The possibility of your capture
and coercion was number seven.
Dreadnought, is there any way
we can prove to you
that you are actually
in the Delta Quadrant,
not a deception?
that this is
The probability of being
in the Delta Quadrant,
from last confirmed location,
75,000 light years
is negligible.
in the Alpha Quadrant.
The target is located
has been established.
Target lock
no further warnings.
There will be
communications link.
Terminating
( comm link beeps off )
vulnerability I remember
The one possible
is in the thoron
shock emitter.
to fire at full power,
If we can get it
the reactor core for 30 seconds.
that should destabilize
A single sustained
tachyon beam
might just penetrate that core
and destroy it.
What will it take to provoke
Dreadnought into firing?
It shouldn't be that difficult.
Once we go after it
with an all-out assault,
the emitter should fire.
set your target.
Mr. Tuvok,
Ready photons.
JANEWAY:
Ready, Captain.
Fire.
thoron shock emitter has fired.
The missile's
( rumbling )
Initiate the tachyon beam.
We have penetrated its shields.
to the core.
Direct hit
build-up in its reactor.
KIM: Reading an energy
in about 30 seconds.
It should overload
Wait a minute.
There's a plasma surge
coming from its core.
What the hell?
( electric zapping )
( rumbling )
Report!
It sent a plasma burst
into our main power system.
along the tachyon beam
burnt out all over the ship.
We've got E.P.S. relays
from warp or impulse drives.
I'm not getting response
thrusters are out.
Even maneuvering
not significantly damaged.
TUVOK: The missile was
its course for Rakosa.
It has maintained
( dramatic theme playing )
Our engines will be back on line
in less than an hour,
First Minister.
Then we'll try again.
any casualties, Captain?
Did you sustain
A few. A broken arm,
a broken leg.
Fortunately, that's all.
I'm pleased to hear that.
We are projecting casualties
at two million
if the worst occurs.
I have deployed our fleet
to intercept this missile
in a matter of hours.
First Minister, we've analyzed
your offensive capabilities,
for what you're facing.
and they're no match
realized that yourself.
You must have
would you have me do?
And what
Sit here and wait for death
to fall from the sky?
( sighs )
I'm sorry.
We haven't had much sleep.
for anything like this.
We weren't prepared
We are not a warlike race.
We haven't devoted
our resources
to building weapons
like yours.
Please.
First Minister...
hated that title.
I've always
My name is Kellan.
I prefer that.
Our chief engineer
is trying to return
to the missile's
control room.
She's still our best chance
at disarming it.
There's no reason to send your
fleet on a hopeless mission.
your efforts, truly,
I appreciate
but the decision
has been made.
some good pilots, Captain.
We have
they will surprise you.
Perhaps
dramatic theme playing )
( gentle
( beeping and buzzing )
KIM: Blocked again.
( sighs )
We don't have time for this.
Don't worry, we'll find a way
to get you back over there.
We wouldn't have to if
I'd done my job right
the first time.
You couldn't expect to guess
every move it made.
pretty good at guessing mine.
Why not? Dreadnought seems
It's only as smart
as you made it.
about that, Harry.
I'm not so sure
Its programs are adaptive,
and it's been accumulating data
all this time.
It spends every minute
of every day
about new strategies,
thinking
new probabilities.
And I bet it doesn't
spend much time
could have done differently.
worrying about what it
All right, Starfleet,
let's give it another try.
Unauthorized entry detected.
DREADNOUGHT:
Initiating DNA scan.
Hello, B'Elanna.
Your last systems access
was today at 0840 hours.
Current time is 1931 hours.
Have you had a pleasant day?
Oh, yeah. Swell day.
interface has been denied.
Access to programmer
( electrical crackle )
Access to circuit pathways
has been denied.
Be advised that the intensity
of the shock will increase
( scanning device beeping )
if you attempt to open
the panel again.
( high-pitched beeping )
( scanning device beeps )
( electrical whirring )
I'm disappointed in you,
Dreadnought.
a Cardassian agent,
If I really was
you should have killed me
with the first charge.
Probability assessment
indicates
that you are being coerced
by Cardassian forces.
to put up more of a fight.
Somehow I expected you
( systems powering down )
Computer?
has been activated.
Stage Two Alert
Tell me what's happening.
There are 15 priority targets
approaching.
All weapons systems
at full readiness.
Speed: Full impulse.
The Rakosan fleet.
( dramatic theme playing )
Hail the lead ship.
Channel open, Captain.
Audio only.
This is Captain Janeway
on Voyager.
to break off your attack.
I urge you
One of my crew members
is aboard the missile.
MALE PILOT: You'd better get
your crewman out, Captain.
to intercept: 90 seconds.
We estimate time
We're still attempting
to disarm its weapons.
My orders are clear.
to my superiors back home.
You'll have to talk
Rakosa One, out.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.
Janeway to Torres.
is preparing to attack.
The Rakosan fleet
Captain, don't beam me out.
to transport back here again.
I may not be able
I'm making progress.
Lieutenant...
have created a diversion.
The Rakosan ships
I've already used it to disarm
the security codes on board.
to the central processor,
If I can just get
I can disable the entire system.
Alright. We'll try to keep
a transporter lock on you.
( monitor beeping )
Janeway out.
is commencing, Captain.
The Rakosan attack
Move us into weapons
range, Mr. Paris.
Aye, Captain.
Give them some cover fire.
Red Alert.
Firing phasers.
( rumbling from phaser strikes )
DREADNOUGHT: All command control
functions have been rerouted
backup circuits, B'Elanna.
through protected
Your attempt to compromise
weapons control
has been blocked.
Those ships aren't your enemy.
They are not Cardassian.
Can't you recognize that?
This vessel is programmed
with all necessary force
to respond
to prevent any disruption
to its mission.
Shields are holding.
We are drawing minimal fire
from the missile.
Its primary weapon systems
are focused on the
Rakosan vessel.
Another group of fighters
is starting an attack run.
We've got to draw more
of the missile's fire.
a more serious threat, Tuvok.
Make Voyager
Shields at 40%.
decks three and four.
Damage reported on
Repair crews
responding.
are withdrawing, Captain.
The Rakosan vessels
of range of the plasma wave.
Good. Move us out
Janeway to Torres.
Yes, Captain.
The Rakosan ships
have retreated.
We have one hour
and nine minutes
until the missile reaches
the planet. Any progress?
Dreadnought's created
backup systems
to replace the ones
I tried to disable.
Do you have any other ideas?
I'm reluctant to discuss them
in present company.
send over a...?
But could you
( static )
Captain?
DREADNOUGHT: Communications
have been terminated.
has also been disengaged.
Transporter lock
( chuckling )
What took you so long?
There was a tactical advantage
your ship's communications
in monitoring
until this time.
So...
It's just you and me now...
the detonation control circuit.
You are accessing
Probability assessment
indicates
to detonate the explosive
you are attempting
before it reaches its target.
( scoffs )
Now, that wouldn't make
much sense, would it?
I'd be killing myself
in the process.
Probability assessment
indicates
you are attempting to detonate
the explosive
before it reaches its target.
If I'm being coerced
by Cardassians,
to sacrifice myself for them?
why would I be willing
Answer that one.
Unable to respond.
Reassessing probabilities.
Ah-ha.
Gotcha.
those probabilities together?
Why don't we reassess
Okay?
Remember how we used to play
hypothetical games?
Affirmative.
Let's play one now.
Here's a hypothetical
situation for you.
Suppose I've been telling you
the truth all along,
in the Delta Quadrant...
and you really are
in the Delta Quadrant,
Probability of being
from last confirmed location,
75,000 light years
is negligible.
"Hypothetical,"
Dreadnought.
It's a game, remember?
Assume it's true for a moment.
Assumption entered.
for the wrong target...
And we're heading
Assumption entered.
Millions of innocent people
when you detonate.
are about to die
Assumption entered.
how this might happen.
Now explain to me
were damaged or deleted,
If key sensor programs
would be compromised.
data banks
Just for the fun of it...
at those data banks,
Let's have a look
at all... "compromised."
see if anything looks
a complete file directory?
Is this
to be a few missing.
There seem
Files containing information
or tactical systems
about the weapons
to verify sensor accuracy.
are not necessary
You don't trust me.
Oh, I'm hurt.
Pause the display.
Hold on.
What's that?
the Cardassian file on screen.
Computer, identify
Unable to identify.
It looks like a backup file.
when was this file created?
Computer,
Stardate 46437.5.
was before you and I ever met.
I believe that
Hypothetical game
terminated.
Probability reassessment
complete.
A new conclusion?
Affirmative.
Probability of being
in the Delta Quadrant
remains negligible.
When that option is rejected,
new probability assessment
indicates
that you have changed
loyalties, B'Elanna.
You are now cooperating
No...
with the Cardassian
Federation alliance
in the Treaty of 2367,
as described
a treaty which has been
rejected by the Maquis.
Dreadnought...
Humanoid life support
aboard this vessel
( systems powering down )
has been terminated.
Approaching target
at full impulse.
( alarm blaring )
has been activated.
Stage One Alert
final detonation sequence.
Initiating
People are crowding
every port
the eastern continent.
trying to get off
There aren't enough ships.
there are still 41 minutes
Kellan,
for us to prevent this.
What can be done
in 41 minutes?
I'm prepared to use this ship
to detonate the warhead
before the missile
reaches you.
Use your ship?
To collide with it?
Something like that.
Do you really think
that would work?
I'm not sure.
You would sacrifice yourselves
to benefit a people you didn't
even know two days ago?
To save two million lives?
That's not a hard decision.
Your reputation
in this quadrant
isn't deserved, Captain.
For what it's worth...
you've made a friend here.
we'll have a chance
I'm still hoping
this new friendship together.
to celebrate
have been secured.
All key systems
DREADNOUGHT:
You will not gain access.
I'm not interested in your
[PANTING]
key systems anymore,
Dreadnought.
That is an unlikely
assertion, B'Elanna.
Check for yourself.
Seriously.
( console beeps )
You are attempting to access
the obsolete Cardassian file.
Why?
Oh, just killing time.
has been terminated.
Life support
It is advisable for you
to return to your ship.
I believe our best chance
Gentlemen,
at stopping Dreadnought now
is to set off
a large antimatter explosion
directly in its path.
To work, it would
take more energy
than all our photons
put together.
Or more to the point,
a warp core breach.
it would take
of the evacuation, Commander.
You'll be in charge
I'm not leaving you
on this ship.
Captain's prerogative.
to the escape pods.
Get the crew
the senior officers
I'll send
in a few minutes.
to join you
to debate this, Chakotay.
We don't have time
senior officers, with me.
Everyone except
the self-destruct sequence.
Computer, initiate
Janeway Pi 1-1-0.
Authorization:
Set it at 20 minutes.
Warning! Self-destruct sequence
COMPUTER:
has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in 20 minutes.
( beeping )
CARDASSIAN COMPUTER VOICE:
Cardassian ATR 4107
attempting to activate systems.
I never thought I'd be glad
to hear that voice again.
Voice analyzer functioning.
Unable to identify.
DREADNOUGHT:
Attempting to activate systems.
CARDASSIAN COMPUTER:
DREADNOUGHT: No additional
presence detected.
diagnostics, Dreadnought.
[PANTING] Check those
You're talking to yourself.
I believe you're having
an identity crisis.
CARDASSIAN COMPUTER:
Accessing central
processor memory.
Engaging counter-virus
response program.
DREADNOUGHT:
Attempting to override program.
CARDASSIAN COMPUTER:
Computer...
Identify the target.
Maquis munitions placed
on planetoid A-441.
CARDASSIAN:
DREADNOUGHT: The Cardassian
fuel depot on Aschelan V.
in the targeting system.
Malfunction detected
CARDASSIAN:
Attempting to correct.
Negative. Target lock
has been confirmed.
DREADNOUGHT:
The Maquis are now
in control...
This target doesn't conform
to established targeting
parameters...
cannot proceed without...
The detonation sequence
sequence will continue.
to the detonation
The countdown
antimatter pods.
Ejecting
will be destroyed.
Aschelan V
system has failed.
Emergency ejection
all key circuits.
to reinitialize
Attempting
to the navigational
system is denied.
Access
All critical pathways
backup system.
Accessing
to protected backup systems.
have been rerouted
Security lockouts
functioning...
and intermittent beeping )
overlap with glitches
( computer voices
continue overlapping )
( both computers beeping only )
Yes.
COMPUTER: Warning! Self-destruct
sequence has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in 11 minutes.
KIM: Captain, I've broken
through the interference.
We have communications.
I'm not sure how.
transporter signal.
Checking on
I have a lock on her.
Voyager to Torres.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.
to get you out of there.
I need
We're abandoning Voyager.
I'm going to overload
in the missile's flight path.
the warp core
I may be able to detonate
the warhead from here
the containment field.
by breaching
Can you get access
to the core?
I'm already in it.
I'm using my phaser
to burn through the magnetic
constrictor casing now.
( panting )
Are you all right,
B'Elanna?
Fine.
a little thin in here.
The air's just
Keep me advised.
Janeway out.
control to the comm,
Mr. Kim, transfer
to your escape pod.
and report
That's a direct order
to all of you.
Captain...
Mr. Paris, I'm
relieving you.
Now!
The starboard thrusters
are a little sluggish.
Ease into them.
Understood.
Captain...
Thanks for everything.
COMPUTER: Warning!
Self-destruct sequence
has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in seven minutes.
You, too, Tuvok.
It is logical to have
a second-in-command
in case you are injured
and unable to complete
the mission, Captain.
I request permission
to remain.
Permission granted.
Hello, B'Elanna.
DREADNOUGHT:
The Cardassian virus
has been neutralized.
Good for you.
Containment field
integrity at 40%
and falling.
Estimated time
to breach?
This vessel is programmed
with all necessary force
to respond
to prevent any disruption
to its mission.
Unless I'm mistaken,
you're out of options,
Dreadnought.
Analysis of your vital signs
suggests you are about to lose
consciousness, B'Elanna.
I'm not going anywhere
until I'm finished.
When you cease your efforts
the containment field,
to breach
life support will be restored.
No deal.
Warning! Self-destruct sequence
has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in three minutes.
Increasing velocity.
to adjust our heading
Preparing
to intercept.
Janeway to Torres.
Yes?
to get back here, B'Elanna.
This is your last chance
the last escape pods.
I have to launch
I understand, Captain.
I am almost finished.
Let me stay.
Warning! Self-destruct sequence
has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in two minutes.
Containment field integrity
DREADNOUGHT:
at 20% and falling.
Delta Quadrant hypothesis
Perhaps your
further consideration.
deserves
( labored chuckle )
Nice try.
Who would have thought,
two years ago,
after all those weeks
we spent together
perfecting your program...
that we'd end up out here...
trying to kill each other.
Probability assessment
did not anticipate
this outcome.
The missile's containment
field is collapsing.
Beam her back now.
Hang on.
Warning! Self-destruct sequence
has been initiated.
Warp core overload
in one minute.
self-destruct sequence.
Computer, terminate
Janeway Pi 1-1-0.
Authorization:
Sequence terminated.
Confirmed.
B'Elanna, are you...?
Janeway to Torres.
DR. ZIMMERMAN: She's here
in Sick Bay, Captain.
Please turn to your emergency
medical holographic channel.
Doctor, I forgot about you.
How flattering. I wanted
to advise you that I took
of beaming Lieutenant Torres
the liberty
from the Transporter Room
to Sick Bay.
She is somewhat singed
around the edges,
a complete recovery.
but should make
Very good, Doctor.
Janeway out.
Mr. Tuvok,
prepare to retrieve
our escape pods.
our crew home.
Let's bring
Aye, Captain.
( dramatic theme playing )
theme music playing )
( dramatic